Data for the following manuscript:

Probert WJM, Jewell CP, Werkman M, Fonnesbeck CJ, Goto Y, Runge MC, Sekiguchi S, Shea K, Keeling MJ, Ferrari MJ, Tildesley MJ Data from: Real-time decision-making during emergency disease outbreaks. PLOS Computational Biology (in prep)


Description
-----------

These data include parameter estimates and simulation output for two outbreaks of
foot-and-mouth disease (FMD): the outbreak in UK in 2001 and the outbreak in 
Miyazaki, Japan in 2010.  Parameters are estimated at several time points throughout
both outbreaks.  Simulation of several control interventions from these time points
onwards was also performed and the simulated total number of culled livestock is 
recorded.  Details of the model structure and parameterisation of the model are 
described in the Methods section of the manuscript.  


File contents
---------------

There are three files for each outbreak (all comma-separated files) with country 
suffixes (<country>) as either "uk" or "japan":

* `parameters_<country>.csv`
    Data on parameter estimates at various time points throughout the outbreak.  There are data on 2000 parameter coordinates for each time point.  

* `simulation_output_<country>.csv`
    Data on total number of culls from simulated outbreaks under various control
    interventions at various time points throughout the outbreaks.  There are data
    on 2000 simulations for each control intervention and time point.  

* `counts_<country>.csv`
    Data on the number of times each control intervention would be selected as
    optimal if 1000 boostrap samples of each control were drawn and compared at
    each time point in quesiton.  


Variables in datasets
---------------------

**`parameters_*.csv` datasets have the following columns:**

* `week` : int

    Week of the outbreak since the first confirmed infected case.  

* `rep` : int

    Parameter coordinate ID

The following parameters are included as columns (all float variables), see the 
manuscript for a description of the parameters:
`epsilon_1, epsilon_2, gamma_1, gamma_2,`
`xi_2, xi_3, psi_1, psi_2, psi_3,`
`zeta_2, zeta_3, phi_1, phi_2, phi_3, delta`


**`simulation_output_*.csv` datasets have the following columns:**

* `week` : int

    Week of the outbreak since the first confirmed infected case.  

* `rep` : int

    Simulation repetition (or simulation ID)

* `params_used` : str

    The parameter set used to generate the simulations.  Either 'final' or 'accrued'.  

* `control` : str

    The control intervention that was simulated (see 'Control interventions' below)

* `total_culls` : str

    The final total culls in the simulation in question using the control intervention
    in question.  


**`counts_*.csv` datasets have the following columns:**

* `week` : int

    Week of the outbreak since the first confirmed infected case.  

* `params_used` : str

    The parameter set used to generate the simulations.  Either 'final' or 'accrued'.  

* `control` : str

    The control intervention that was simulated (see 'Control interventions' below)

* `counts` : int

    The number of times that the control intervention in question was selected 
    as optimal out of 1000 bootstrap samples.  



Control interventions
---------------------

Simulated control interventions included: 

* Culling of infected premises only (ip)
* Culling of infected premises and dangerous contacts (ipdc)
* Culling of infected premises, dangerous contacts and contiguous premises (ipdccp)
* Ring culling in areas surrounding infected premises at 3 and 10 km radii (rc3 and rc10 respectively)
* Vaccination in areas surrounding infected premises at 3 and 10km radii (v3 and v10 respectively)

See Materials and Methods for further details of the control interventions.  This set of intervention strategies includes those that governments have implemented, or considered, in the past and that are consistent with other studies on foot-and-mouth 
disease.  


Contributions
---------------

Parameter estimation data was generated by Chris P Jewell.  Simulation data were 
generated by Michael J Tildesley.  W J M Probert and M Werkman processed earlier 
versions of the parameter and simulation data.  W J M Probert processed the 
final version of the data used in this repository.  


Contact
---------------

Questions or comments may be forwarded to:

William J M Probert <br>
*Nuffield Department of Medicine, University of Oxford* <br>
*Big Data Institute, Li Ka Shing Centre for Health Information and Discovery* <br>
*Old Road Campus, Headington, Oxford, OX37LF, United Kingdom* <br>

* web:    [www.probert.co.nz](www.probert.co.nz)
* email:  <william.probert@bdi.ox.ac.uk>

---------------
